






Apply CSUF - Graduate Studies | CSUF




























  This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.

 
 


Skip Navigation



 
		 
	



California State University, Fullerton

 


 
 


Site Menu
 
 
 






DIVISION OF ACADEMIC AFFAIRSGraduate Studies





Main Navigation
		About Us
		Show Extended



Mission & Vision


Meet Our Team


CSUF GradSlam Winners


Elevar/Grad Equity Scholars


Newsletters


Contact Us




		Academics
		Show Extended



Important Dates


Graduation Preparation


Forms/Documents


Thesis/Dissertation


Academic Assistance


Academic Policies/Procedures


Titan Grad Slam


Giles T. Brown Thesis Excellence Award


GPA Calculator


Curriculum Development




		Admissions
		Show Extended



Graduate Degree Programs


Applying to CSUF


International Students


Tuition and Other Fees




		Funding
		Show Extended



Graduate Equity Fellowship


California Pre-Doctoral Program


Chancellor's Doctoral Incentive Program


Giles T. Brown Thesis Support Award


Pa’lante Fellowship Program


CSUF Financial Aid 




		Services
		Show Extended



Graduate Studies Center (GSC)


Workshops and Events


Writing Appointments


Student Advising


Tuffy's Basic Needs


Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS)




		Project upGRADS
		 






 



 
 




Graduate Programs
Application Process
Seeking a graduate degree is a momentous step in your academic and professional career. We offer a large variety of high-quality graduate programs. We hope you consider becoming a Titan! Please read through the steps below to prepare for the application process. 






APPLICATION DEADLINES
The application period opens on October 1 for fall admission and August 1 for spring admission. Deadlines vary for individual programs based upon program cycles and capacities. Locate the website for the program you are interested in for current deadline information.




SUBMIT THE UNIVERSITY APPLICATION
To begin your application, all applicants are required to apply to CSUF through Cal State Apply . Submit your application and pay the $70 nonrefundable application fee. There are no application fee waivers for graduate applicants. Make sure you select the correct program in Cal State Apply; the program you apply for is the program you will be considered for, there are no transfers in graduate study. 




SUBMIT OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS
Submit all required official transcripts. Required transcripts needed will appear in your Tasks in the CSUF student portal. Submitting your transcripts as soon as you apply is extremely important. Transcripts should be sent directly to the Office of Admissions in electronic format (preferred method) by the institution or a sealed envelope (if electronic transcripts are not available). Applicants should not open envelopes that contain official transcripts.

Spring 2023 Applicants – You are required to submit official transcripts from all colleges and universities that you have attended. Transcripts that include transfer credit from a different institution is not sufficient evidence of course work taken elsewhere.

Fall 2023 Applicants – Submit the official transcripts from the college or university from which you earned your bachelor’s degree.
If you are in progress with your bachelor’s degree, then send an official transcript showing classes earned up to this point. If you are admitted, you will be required to send a final official transcript showing the degree was earned before you begin your graduate program.
Some programs may also require another transcript sent to their department. Current CSUF students or alumni do not need to request official transcripts from CSUF. Once we receive your documents, they become official records of the university; such transcripts therefore cannot be returned or reissued. International transcripts must be accompanied by certified English translations or a full credential evaluation, visit here for more information.




MINIMUM UNIVERSITY REQUIREMENTS
For admissions to a master’s degree program, the minimum university admissions requirements are the following.  

Completion of a four-year college course of study and hold an acceptable baccalaureate degree from an institution accredited by a regional accrediting association or an equivalent academic preparation before enrollment in the program
Be in good academic standing at the last college or university attended
Have earned a cumulative grade-point average of at least 2.5 from the last degree completed by the candidate or have attained a grade-point average of at least 2.5 (A=4.0) in the last 60 semester (90 quarter) units attempted

For admission, any additional program requirements will also need to be met. Please visit the program website for the most up to date admissions criteria and application instructions.




APPLICATION STATUS CHECK
After you submit your application in Cal State Apply, check your application status by logging into the student portal and viewing your application status. For more information, follow the instructions on Checking Application Status .
The Office of Graduate Studies first reviews your application and transcripts to verify your eligibility based on the minimum university admission requirements. If these are met, your application is reviewed by the program for a final decision. Should you have any questions about your application decision, please contact the program first. In cases where an applicant believes there was a mistake in calculating GPA or verifying minimum university requirements, the Office of Graduate Studies may review the application again.




TESTS REQUIRED
Some programs require a standardized test, like the GRE or GMAT. Please check the program requirements to determine if test scores are needed. To submit your official test scores to CSUF, our university code is 4589.  




ENGLISH LANGUAGE REQUIREMENTS
Regardless of citizenship, all applicants whose native language is not English must submit proof of English proficiency. Information about English proficiency requirements can be found on the International Admissions website. The requirements may vary depending on your program of interest.







INTERNATIONAL APPLICANTS
International students should refer to Eligibility Requirements to find more information about transcripts and English language proficiency requirements. Applicants can visit International Student Services for questions about travel, visas, and other application requirements. General questions for international students can be directed to iss@fullerton.edu.




ADMISSIONS DECISIONS AND APPEALS

Decision Process 

Once all of your official documents are received, your application is reviewed to verify the minimum university admissions requirements are met. If these are met, your application is reviewed by faculty in the program for a final decision. The graduate advisor can best address any questions you have about their admission criteria or specific reasons for admission decisions.

Admission Appeal Process 

Each application is reviewed extensively and decisions are made based on academic qualifications in the context of very competitive applicant pools. Every application is reviewed for maximum consideration. However, if you feel you have new, serious, and compelling information that shows you to be academically stronger than had been earlier evidenced, you may initiate an appeal of your admission decision. To appeal a graduate admission decision, please complete and submit the Graduate Admission Decision Appeal form . The appeal form must be completed within 15 days of the admission decision. It is recommended that you provide attachments that support your appeal. You will be notified of appeal decisions within four to six weeks of your request. Appeals that request a second evaluation or do not include any new or compelling reason for the appeal will be automatically denied.




IMMUNIZATION REQUIREMENTS

All incoming graduate students admitted for fall 2022 and beyond are required to comply with CSU immunization requirements. These requirements can be found at CSUF Student Wellness.


















































































This site is maintained by 
						Graduate Studies.
Last Published 9/30/22
To report problems or comments with this site, please contact 
						gradstudiesrecept@fullerton.edu. 
					© California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved.


Web Accessibility

			CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users.  Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website.
			We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need.
		

Resources:
Download Adobe Acrobat Reader

Adobe Reader

Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer

Microsoft Viewers


Report An ATI Issue


Accessible @ CSUF




Version_4.8.10




			This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.
		

			This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript.  You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.
		


