




Graduate Admissions - Engineering  &  Computer Science | CSUF




























  This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.

 
 


Skip Navigation



 
		 
	



California State University, Fullerton

 


 
 


Site Menu
 
 
 






Engineering  &  Computer Science





Main Navigation
		About Us
		Show Extended


Dean's Message


Dean's Office


Our Mission


Strategic Plan


Enrollment & Degrees Awarded


Contact Us



		Departments
		
		Centers
		
		Current Students
		
		Future Students
		
		Services & Resources
		 


		Employment
		
		News & Events
		
		Giving
		
		Contact Us
		  							
		
 
	






Our MissionDean's OfficeEnrollment & Degrees AwardedStudent Success Center (SSC)Summer Program for High School StudentsNewsletterAffiliatesAlumniGive BackECS Catalog Description

























 


Graduate Admissions




requirements



* For international graduate admissions, these requirements must be met as well as the requirements found below.





In order to meet the 

minimum requirements


 for admission, you must have completed a four-year college course of study and hold an acceptable baccalaureate degree from an institution accredited by a regional accrediting association, be in good academic standing at the last college or university attended, and have attained a minimum/cumulative grade point average of 2.50 (4 point system) from your coursework.



Additional GPA Requirement for the ECS Graduate Programs




Minimum Standards
Explanation




Minimum GPA of 3.0



If you graduated from a U.S. institution with undergraduate degrees other than engineering or computer science.
 

International applicants -if you graduated with undergraduate degrees from non-ABET accredited international institutions.





Minimum GPA of 2.5



If you graduated from a U.S./international institution with undergraduate degrees in engineering or computer science.

 
International applicants

 
- if you graduated from ABET accredited international institution with undergraduate degrees in engineering or computer science.




 (ABET accreditations will be verified by the ECS Graduate & International Admissions Office)




* You are considered under the international admission requirements if you have received your degree outside the U.S. – regardless of your visa status or if you are currently living in the U.S.



 

TRANSCRIPTS

 

Official transcript is required from each university or college you have attended since high school. A transcript for all community college coursework is required even if the transfer credit is reflected on another transcript. If you have already received your bachelor's degree, your transcript must include documentation that you have received the bachelor's degree. If you are currently in the last year of your undergraduate program, your application can be evaluated with only one semester of grades missing. For example, if you are applying for Fall 2023 but will not receive your bachelor's degree until Spring 2023, your transcript must show grades through Fall 2022. You need to wait to send in your transcript until your fall semester grades have been posted otherwise your file is incomplete.
 

TOEFL/IELTS/PTE

 

If you have received your degree outside the U.S. then you are required to present the results of an acceptable English test assessment such as the TOEFL, IELTS, or PTE. You must submit TOEFL/IELTS/PTE scores even if you are a US citizen or have been living and working in the United States for many years since you received your degree. The CSUF policy is based on where you attended school, not your citizenship or how long you have been in the United States.
Minimum test scores to be admissible for our graduate programs



Test Type
Minimum Scores




TOEFL



Internet 80/Paper 550





IELTS



6.5





PTE



58




The English test assessment requirement can be waived if you have completed at least 72 college semester units at a majority English-speaking country (U.S., UK, Ireland, Canada, New Zealand and Australia) or graduated from a U.S. institution. You have two options to submit your test score:

You can have your test score sent by the testing service to CSU Fullerton (the school code is 4589).
                OR
Submit an official scorecard along with your supporting documents to the University's Office of Admissions.

 

NOT REQUIRED FOR ADMISSION

 

The following items are
 

NOT

 
required for admission so PLEASE DO NOT SUBMIT.

Personal Statements
Letter of recommendations
High School Transcript
Certificates of Accomplishments / Trainings
Resumes / Work Experience
GRE or GMAT Scores






how to apply
You must submit an online application and pay the $70 application processing fee at Cal State Apply. An application fee waiver is not available.




admission deadlines
An online application and all supporting documents (official transcripts from all institutions attended, marksheets, degree certificate, and official TOEFL/ IELTS /PTE scores) must be received by the University's Office of Admissions by the date below:
 

SPRING 2023 for ALL Programs INCLUDING Environmental Engineering (ONLINE)

Admission Opens for International & Domestic Applicants Starting August 01, 2022.
Admission Closes for International & Domestic Applicants Starting October 01, 2022.
 

Accepting Applications for the Programs Below:


Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Environmental Engineering (ONLINE)
*I-20/OPT not issued for this online program.

Mechanical Engineering

**INTERNATIONAL students ARE NOT eligible to apply to ONLINE Programs.
Deadline to Submit all documents for ALL Programs October 17, 2022 (must be received by the University's Office of Admissions by the deadline date listed).
Deadline to accept and pay deposit fee for ALL Programs December 1, 2022.
 

FALL 2023 (Review the deadlines below as Programs have different deadlines)

Admission Opens for International & Domestic Applicants Starting October 1, 2022.
 

Accepting Applications for the Programs Below:


Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science (see specific Computer Science deadlines below, they are different from the rest of the other Program deadlines.)
Electrical Engineering
Engineering Management
Environmental Engineering (online) - See below for deadline dates



*I-20/OPT not issued for this online program.


Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering (online)-See below for deadline dates



*I-20/OPT not issued for this online program.

**INTERNATIONAL students ARE NOT eligible to apply to ONLINE Programs.
 



ECS Deadlines INCLUDING Software Engineering (ONLINE) & Environmental Engineering (ONLINE)






Application Deadlines:




INTERNATIONAL students only April 01, 2023
DOMESTIC students only May 01, 2023




Required Documents Deadlines (must be received by the University's Office of Admissions by the deadline date listed):





INTERNATIONAL students only April 17, 2023
DOMESTIC students only May 17, 2023

 



Computer Science Deadlines:







Application Deadlines:




INTERNATIONAL students only February 15, 2023
DOMESTIC students only May 01, 2023




Required Documents Deadlines (must be received by the University's Office of Admissions by the deadline date listed):




INTERNATIONAL students only February 17, 2023
DOMESTIC students only May 17, 2023

 



Accept and Pay Deposit Fee (For All Programs INCLUDING Software AND Environmental Engineering (Online)):





June 1, 2023. If you are admitted after June 1, you have 7 days from the date you were admitted to accept your offer of admission.



Spring/Fall 2023 - Computer Science Applicants
*IMPORTANT- This applies to Computer Science applicants only: The Master of Science in Computer Science is a popular program. Due to the program's popularity and its capacity, graduate applicants are strongly encouraged to apply and complete their application early. The application will be complete only when we receive all of your supporting documents (official transcripts from all institutions attended, mark sheets, degree certificate, and official TOEFL/IELTS/PTE scores). 
 

SUBMISSION FOR ADMISSION
After submitting your application online, please submit all of your supporting documents (official transcripts from all institutions attended, marksheets, degree certificate, and official TOEFL/ IELTS /PTE scores) to the following address:
 California State University, Fullerton   Office of Admissions   P.O. Box 6900   Fullerton, CA 92834 
If your institution allows for electronic submission of official documents, you may request your university's Registrar's Office to email documents to admissions@fullerton.edu. Documents sent by the applicant will not be accepted.
Early application and supporting documents submission is strongly advised, due to strong demand for programs.
Send only OFFICIAL college transcripts. Official means it must be delivered securely from the originating institution directly to the University's Office of Admissions as a hard copy mailed in the institution's sealed envelope, not opened by the student.





application status


If you wish to check on the status of your application to our graduate program, please e-mail our admission office at 

ecsgrad@fullerton.edu

. Your email 


must
 



include your first and last name, CWID (Campus Wide ID#), and the name of program that you have applied to.






newly admitted graduate students

Spring 2023 New Graduate Student Orientation
The orientation will take place on January 13, 2023. An email will be sent to newly admitted students with more information.




Information for International Graduate Students




requirements
* International students must meet above requirements including the ones listed here.
*You are not eligible to apply to a graduate program if you have already earned a Master's Degree in the same program. See FAQS (below) for more info.








EUROPEAN BACHELOR DEGREES
If you hold a European 3 year degree bachelor’s degree, you would need to submit a diploma supplement in order to have their application reviewed or provide a credential evaluation indicating US equivalency of a 4 year degree.




Student visas, health insurance requirement and Financial Documents
The University's Extension and International Programs office can provide more detailed information on these topics.




FEE Information
Visit the Student Business Services for fee information.














Frequently Asked Questions




Can I Attend Part-Time? 
Yes! Many of our graduate courses are offered in the evening to accommodate working professionals. The Software Engineering and Environmental Engineering programs are offered entirely online and therefore fit anyone’s schedule. International students must maintain their full-time student status.




How Long Does It Take To Receive My Master's Degree?
All of the master's programs require 30 units to receive your degree. There are many factors that affect how long it will take to receive your degree; the most important factors are how many courses you plan to take per semester and if you have any deficiency (prerequisite) courses to complete before beginning the required 30 units. The one exception is the Software Engineering program; the program consists of two courses per semester for five semesters (22 months).




Can I Apply To A Program I Have Already Earned A Master's Degree In?
No. If you have already earned a Master's Degree in a particular field you ARE NOT ELIGIBLE to apply to the same program within CSUF's College of Engineering and Computer Science (Example: if you have an M.S. in Computer Engineering you MAY NOT apply to the CSUF gradaute Computer Engineering program).




Can I Be Admitted If I Don't Have A Bachelor's Degree in The Same Major? 
Yes! You can still be admitted if you do not have an academic background in the field you are applying for. You will be assigned deficiency (prerequisite) courses by an advisor in the department. You can take these courses as a master's student at CSUF before beginning the 30 units required for the master's degree. A resume is required to assess your work experience if you are applying to Software Engineering; please send your resume to ecsgrad@fullerton.edu once you have submitted your application to Software Engineering.




Can I Transfer Courses I Took At Another University Into the Master's Program?
You can request to apply a limited number of transfer courses towards unit requirements for a master's degree. The maximum number of units that can be transferred to a master's program is nine (9).




Can I Take A Class Without Being Admitted To A Master's Program?
Yes! Anyone can enroll in undergraduate and graduate-level classes through Open University. Registration is provided on a space available basis. If a course has prerequisites you must have met the prerequisites in order to be eligible to enroll. If you decide to apply for a master's program at CSUF you may be able to transfer courses taken through Open University. Visit Open University for more information.
























additional resources



Office of Admissions











Graduate Studies Office








questions and concerns


Contact Graduate and International Admissions for the College of Engineering and Computer Science at 

ecsgrad@fullerton.edu
 



or (657) 278-7786. You may also visit our office in CS 311 (

campus map

).




















This site is maintained by 
						Engineering & Computer Science.
Last Published 12/15/22
To report problems or comments with this site, please contact 
						ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. 
					© California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved.


Web Accessibility

			CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users.  Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website.
			We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need.
		

Resources:
Download Adobe Acrobat Reader

Adobe Reader

Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer

Microsoft Viewers


Report An ATI Issue


Accessible @ CSUF




Version_4.8.16




			This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.
		

			This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript.  You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.
		


